Now we'll be moving on to the last and final part, project path 3. The same way we'll be opening the project in the project explorer, opening the hierarchy, going under the src, selecting our package, this time it's path 3 robotic arm. Inside of the files we'll be using the robotic arm simulation or java, we'll be opening this file and also running this file as a java application.

We've kept the iterations to 1 so that we can easily compare among the different test cases.

I'll just give you an overview before we start with it. In this project, we are basically making a robotic arm controller. Over here we have three threads that share one motor controller. The three threads are, first one is the high priority safety monitor, the second one is a medium priority motion planner, and the third and the lowest priority is the logger. one run of this program tests all the three modes automatically the way I've kept it is that all three test cases can be seen simultaneously in one console rather than different output windows so that we can easily compare with it I'll be starting with my first test over here we can see the name in the console we can see the name of the project that's real -time robotic arm controller we can see that the iteration that we've set for now is one let's start with the test one this is pretty much like a baseline so there's no priority management happening over here the logger starts first and this we can see that the logger starts first and then it grabs the motor safety motor tries to enter and it prints safety motor but it's blocked motor controller is used by logger low and has to wait the motion planner then also runs safety monitor but even that is stuck this is a very classic case of

is pretty

logger starts first and this we can see that the logger starts first and then it grabs the motor safety motor tries to enter and it prints safety motor but it's blocked motor controller is used by logger low and has to wait the motion planner then also runs safety monitor but even that is stuck this is a very classic case of very classic case of priority inversion the highest priority task is delayed and the longest because of the low priority task over here logger low that holds the shared resource and over here you can see the wait time being extremely big so over here it's 587 milliseconds when we go to different test cases you'll see why this waiting time is the biggest in the next one we go to test two test two is a simple case it's a priority inheritance case

over here

the next one we go to test two test two is a simple case it's a priority inheritance case in this the moment the safety monitor blocks the logger we can see that the priority inheritance is applied to logger low and that makes logger low temporarily the maximum priority so here we can see logger low having the maximum priority assigned to it so it can be preempted even before the motion panel

it can be preempted even before the motion panel This way it finishes faster. You can see the priority is restored the second it does, and that's when the safety monitor also enters. The waiting time is significantly less compared to the previous baseline. The third and the last test case that we have here is the test case of priority ceiling. In this, the motor is the shared case. Before the program runs, the motor is given the ceiling priority. Using equally to the highest priority task that we may need. So when the logger low enters, or locks the motor, even though it's normally a low priority, the system temporarily rises the motor's ceiling priority. And that's why in the output it says that priority ceiling applied logger low. This prevents medium priority tasks. For example, the medium priority tasks that we have,

for example, the medium priority case that we have, the motion planner. It interrupts it and it lets the logger low run.

low run.

While it's holding the motor because Logolo can now finish its motor work faster and it can release the motor a lot sooner Finally, we can also see that the priority is restored once it's done over here We can see the time to be 2 .53 right in between the first and the second case and We can also check what these average timing means over here because it's low priority The highest priority has to wait and this has the highest one. This is the fastest one And this will give you consecutive faster ones. At times, there can be that the priority ceiling ends up slightly faster than the test case do. But when we run the average, which we will be doing now, so we'll set, to get a clearer and a better average, we'll set the arguments to a higher iteration value. So right now, we're going to set it to, let's say, 5. Apply and run. This way, we can see that multiple run case happens per test.

sprinting yeah over here we can see that just for test over here again the same way we see the name of the project real -time robotic arm controller the iterations we asked this time are five so every test case there are five runs in total and at the end of all these five runs we're able to find the average time so over here the average time is 559 milliseconds which roughly comes to which is mentioned here with the waiting raft in the second test which is the priority inheritance the average time that we run that we get after the five runs is uh 251 milliseconds which is extremely low compared to the previous one and now the test case three which is the final test case after five runs we get that to be at again 253 milliseconds so this clearly shows that after five averages the lowest value still remains to be this This is significantly similar and is a lot lower compared to the baseline. And baseline over here remains the highest at 559 MS. A slight easter egg over here is this weighting graph. This weighting graph was added more of as a person touch and to clearly understand the difference between the values that we receive. So this DB is not a syntax error or any different type of error. It's the initials of my name. This is extended because the value is 559. As we go on to the second test case, because it's 251 milliseconds, it's a lot lesser. And again, in 253, it's slightly more. So this is just a graph to clearly show the difference between the three test cases. That's going to be all for my project demonstration. If there's any questions, I'd love to answer them. Thank you once again.