Hi, my name is Dave Bhodia and today I'll be presenting to you my ECT331 project demonstration. I'll be running through all the three programs and walk through all the test cases for each. Starting with the first one being the fault -tolerant drone navigation system. On the left -hand side, we can see the project hierarchy. Under the SRC, I've created a package called part1 drone. Under that, all the dodge -over files are there. Our main dodge -over file would be the drone navigation app,

which I will be running now.

run as Java application to start we'll be running only five iterations this is going to be a general overview to see the process and how the way the way it works so this is the console output let me just open the file as well yeah console yeah this is the console output yes

process and how the way the way it works so this is the console output let me just open the file as well yeah

this is the console output yes

so over here we have the in the console i'll just go over it quickly the first part is it's going to print the name of the program that's fault tolerant autonomous zone navigation system it's going to print the number of iteration that was requested in our case we did five arguments over here you're supposed to see all five cycles unless failures or safe mode is triggered in our case we can only see two and the safe mode is triggered so i'll just quickly go over this one The base form factor is supposed to be of every cycle, there are going to be three sensors. On the drone, we have three sensors that capture different attitudes, and we've named them as sensor A, B, and C. The way we decide and send a value to the drone controller is based on majority. So over here, the whole idea is at least two sensors should have a minimum majority. So for example, there should also be 100, there should also be 100. At least if all three are there, it's even better. But at least if two of these sensors match, we can proceed with the value and give it to the drone controller. Over here, since A is 100, B is 103, and C is 102, there's no clear majority, and that's why the fallback altitude is 100 meters. This is to be the set value. But in a normal case, it goes to the previously known safe altitude, which I'll be showing you shortly. Now, because this is... really small i'll try to run this up again and if not then i'll just increase the number of iterations to see a proper one application still the same so this time i will be running a bigger argument of 50 iterations so we can probably overlook all the different parts of it

still the same so

this time i will be running a bigger argument of 50 iterations so we can probably overlook all the different parts of it Now, again, it was meant to run 50 iterations, but we can only see six. First one, we already saw that, okay, the case one. Again, in this case, also, two sensors are corrupted, and sensor sees a 102, even though there is a majority, like there are two sensors that have the matching value, but this is a corrupted value, so this is pretty much useless. This corrupted tag is showed up. When the sensor reading is outside the range, the range that we've set is 1 to 200 meters. So anytime, like for example, over here it's 2004 and this is negative 45, anytime it crosses that range, the file reading automatically gets corrupted. And then when this case happens that there are fewer than two valid sensors, we throw reliability status. That is failure one. And we print 100 meters because that's the set safe one. cycle two and cycle two we have three but over here we see two majorities so sensor a is 103 sensor c is also 103 sensor b is 11 because we have two same ones and that's why because there is a majority decision now 103 we reset so we print okay and we reset the counter so the failure counter which was set to one because of the failure of less than two valid sensors it's now resets to zero and the new value that we supply to the drone control is 103 meters Next part, Cycle C. Cycle C, again, we have two values. Even though there is a failure of a sensor that's taking place over here, we still have two sensors with the value, and that's why we're proceeding with it. Again, 100, there's no consecutive failures. And the same way as Cycle 4, also we have the same thing. Sensor A is there. Over here, all three of them match. So this case, the reliability altitude is 104, the state is okay, and the failure is reset, and this is the supplied output. Now these two are going to be the important one because you already showed the majority voting, the triple redundancy system. We showed how the fallback takes place. For example, we can even do it here, and then there's a safe mode as well. So let's look into the failure again. Like I said, because there are less than two sensors matching, over here we have a failure and failure. and only one value, and the test case leading with us to have less than two valid sensors, the fallback altitude goes to the last known altitude. So in the previous case, in cycle 4 itself, we can see that 104 was selected majority, so this is a safe altitude that we had already separated the drone controller. Rather than guessing or approximating and causing harm to the drone itself, We've added the safe fallback feature that automatically falls back to the last known safe value. So over here 104 was the safe value. The same thing is printed here and this is what happens. These failure events are just talking about the cycle 5. In cycle 5 that we had a failure event of sensor A and sensor B. This is not really and really a major fault. It's more or less an exception error. So anytime there's a flag. That is fail. It's nothing but a sensory exception. And that's accepted. It's a handled fault and not a crash. So that is just something that can be looked at now. Moving to cycle six. Over here, because it was a failure, we go to reliability status and put it as one. Proceed to the next one. Again, we have three values. There's no failure or corruption. But because all three values are different and the majority value fails, we fall back to 104 meters which was the safe cycle for value so we fall back to this value and because there was a back -to -back consecutive failure so in this reliability we had a failure it got triggered to one again we had a failure so now we got triggered to two we have created a safety mode so the way the safety mode is created that if there's any two consecutive reliability failures the drone enters a safe mode where all the execution is stopped and the whole log of it is saved in a log file that we'll look into shortly but this is just to make sure that the drone remains safe because there were two cons excuse me there are two consecutive failures now let's refresh the project to see the updated updated values in the log .txt so this pretty much shows our whole running that we did it shows that we started the application we asked for 50 arguments or 50 iterations and the first issue there were corrupted values and second one this is the census value this is the voting it goes all the way everything that we require and over here it also enters safe mode so this safe mode title is what we listed here as evidence that okay everything was running safe there were a few corruptions there were a few validity failures but because there were two consecutive failures or failure two of two tag was triggered we automatically run into the safety mode, and that's why the execution is stopped exactly at this timestamp. We've also put the timestamp so we know exactly what time the cycle has started, were there any issues, and at what time, so we can go later on, and if this was a real F project, we can recalibrate it and look into the center values. The last thing is the Java doc, which let me just generate.

So we click generate and because we are inside Jamaica VM, we need to kind of trace the projects over here. We can see that it has been downloaded. We open each Jamaica doc and inside there we click the index .html. This is going to take us to the site. It's going to show us all the class summary, the exception summary. We can just click any controller, see the constructors, the methods, the details. and the exceptions, if there were any exceptions of it. So this is pretty much it for part one. Now we'll be going to part two.